Cracked the case yet?
No...
What are you reading, Ajit?
Tell me.
I must distract myself.
A very interesting subject!
Religion has turned
into a business...
According to Freud, behind every religion
there's a primordial murder.
- Primordial murder?
- Hmm...
The original murder...
What does that mean?
Let me explain...
Suppose we belong to
a primitive barbarian tribe.
There's a cruel father who wants
to expel his sons from the tribe.
- Why?
- Because...
the father wants all the women
of that tribe for himself.
I see.
And then?
Then the children conspire against him
and murder the father.
And to celebrate the success
they even consume their father's flesh.
So, it's metaphor.
But what does it imply?
It implies that...
according to Freud,
by consuming the father's flesh...
the sons imbibe the father's energy.
Although they respect
their father...
they also consider him an enemy.
They respect him for his strength.
And despise him
for his violent, envious nature. Right?
And by consuming that flesh...
all the brothers become one
with the father's energy.
Now, this act of vengeance
makes them feel guilty.
And to free themselves
of this guilt...
they worship the father
as the head of the tribe.
As a godhead.
That's how all religion began.
All metaphors...
Freud meant that...
man uses religion as a way
to get rid of his guilt.
Hmm.
Different religion have created
different gods...
Freud thinks it's all primordial murder.
A majestic symbol for the slain father.
Metaphor... primordial murder...
The first murder...
(bell rings)
Come in.
My name is Manmatha Rudra.
You must be Nontu?
Do you know me?
Yes, I recently came
to know your name.
Do you want to know
about Rekha's death?
Yes...
- Did you find anything, Byomkesh?
- Nothing yet.
Umm... what do you think?
Did Rekha really commit suicide?
Not possible.
Then did someone...
You were in a relationship
with Rekha.
But your father
was strictly against it.
Believe me, I didn't accept
my father's decision.
We had a huge fight over it.
Who might benefit from Rekha's death?
Your father...
My father?
No... no...
that can't be!
Why not?
Huh?
We know your father very well.
He has no regard for people.
You might have a motive as well.
What are you trying to say?
I loved Rekha.
Did you know
if Rekha had any enemies?
You must know...
you're the closest to her.
I don't know anyone.
That means Rekha's only enemy
was your father.
You know... feeding on the flesh...
Isn't it?
- Huh?
- No... no...
You're mistaken...
No... no... he wanted to...
Are you getting it?
Feeding on the flesh...
Sons want to consume
their father's flesh...
What are you saying?
You're wrong.
Father can't do this!
Primordial murder...
The original murder...
I left Delhi at 10 a.m. yesterday.
I reached here at 2:30 p.m. today.
I spent 30 hours on the train.
You've been a great help
in this time of crisis.
That's our duty
as your neighbour, Debkumar.
Listen...
What happened to my daughter?
Do you know?
Nothing yet... but...
what Dr. Rudra said
after examining the body...
What?
That filthy man stepped
inside my house?
Demon... he's living demon...
I... I've to go now.
To the morgue.
I have to bring my daughter's body
from the morgue.
Byomkesh...
if I had money...
I would've appointed you
for the investigation.
But I can't afford you.
Afford me?
I beg your pardon,
Debkumar but...
- The collection in your house...
- Inheritance...
I'm just a government employee.
Fees are not always important.
No...
I can't take anyone's help
without fees.
Police...
Police are investigating.
They'll do whatever they can.
I won't get my daughter back.
Have your tea before you leave.
- Byomkesh...
- Hmm?
Did you notice Debkumar's rings?
A scientist wearing gemstones.
Hmm...
A misconception was corrected today.
What?
I thought Debkumar despised
his children from his first wife.
I was wrong.
He loves them a lot.
Yes... especially his daughter.
- Byomkesh?
- Hmm?
The post mortem report?
Good reminder.
It must have come by now.
- Let's check it.
- Let's go.
Hmm...
By Jove!
What an amazing death!
Doctors have failed to identify
the cause of death.
Any scar on the body?
No.
Did they find any poison?
- The heart?
- Normal.
- When will the report come?
- Tomorrow.
Then it might be nervous paralysis.
What caused
the nervous paralysis...
the doctors are clueless.
- Such a strange death!
- Yes.
Never heard or seen
such a murder!
This case will go
to the coroner's court, right?
Sure it will.
And they'll close the case saying
death due to unknown reason.
So...
we better close the case too.
You may close the case
but I'll keep it open.
Hmm...
Yeah I know that.
Brinjal fritters?
No Bidhu... not now!
So Byomkesh...
do you suspect anyone?
Not anyone in particular
but this case is dicey.
Oh...
- What do you think of Debkumar's wife?
- That's the wrong path...
To solve this murder
we've to find the cause of death.
How did that girl die?
- I see...
- We can't just suspect anyone randomly.
No, you must accept that
at the time of her death...
her stepmother and
her brother was there.
I'm aware of that, Ajit.
I accept it.
But we have to know
the cause of death.
But the doctors
don't know the cause.
The doctors have only examined
the corpse.
We've examined everything else.
So maybe we'll find out
what the doctors couldn't.
Yeah...
I know you're very much capable
of doing everyone's job.
But you don't have to worry.
This is no time for joke, Ajit.
- Some fritters then?
- Again with the fritters!
- Yes... yes...
- It's quite late.
- Goodbye.
- Yes... goodbye.
- Byomkesh?
- Yes...
I was saying...
when you've decided
to go ahead with the case...
then why not do it together?
Debkumar has dismissed me.
He can't afford me.
Can't afford you?
But how?
I've heard he has
a well-paid job.
He gets Rs. 700-800 as salary.
- Really?
- Yes.
Then...
Well, if he doesn't want it...
Yeah... whatever...
Debkumar might have
dismissed you...
but since we're going ahead
with the investigation
I'll call you when I need your help.
- You mean the opposite, right?
- What?
Yes, call me when you need me.
- May I leave now?
- Yes.
Let's go, Ajit.
- Come home someday.
- Of course.
- Good night.
(indistinct chatter)
Father...
You're here.
Good...
Keep it there.
Take a seat.
I need to talk to you.
Another conference?
Coming and going... as he pleases.
This maid is here to do the chores.
How can you leave us
in such a crisis?
- It's a very important conference, Subhra.
- To hell with that!
Conference and conference!
That's all I'm hearing
since we got married.
What is the point?
Have you invented anything
till now?
So that I can proudly show off
to the neighbors?
The girl is gone...
Who knows when it'll be my turn?
Life is a living hell.
Bloody hell!
Where are you going, Father?
Patna.
I have to attend a conference.
The train leaves tomorrow night.
Come with me...
I don't feel so good.
I'll be relieved if you come.
You'll come, right?
Sure.
Dr. Roy, we can't make any sense
of this case.
Everything is foggy.
How can I catch the killer...
when I can't even suspect anyone
with all my heart?
Do something.
I can't go beyond this report.
But...
I have a theory of my own.
And that is...
I think...
Smelling an unknown poisonous gas
is the cause of death.
Because she was
lighting the oven then?
Yes...
I can't think of anything else.
An unknown poisonous gas...
Gas?
Foggy!
SUBHRA,
NONTU,
DR. RUDRA,
DEBKUMAR,
HABUL.
Life is hard without Satyabati.
This is all I could rustle up, brother.
Eat up.
You call these brinjal fritters?
They look like amoeba.
Far better than your fried eggs.
Finish this.
Then make the tea.
I've to carry on with writing.
Yuck!
So you won't make the tea?
Wait... I'll get it.
- You know, Ajit...
- Hmm.
I also think some poisonous gas
killed Rekha.
You mean...
the police doctor guessed it right?
Right now I don't see
any other possibility.
This is the only logical deduction
right now.
Since, no poison was found
in her body...
this is the only possible cause.
But we have to remember...
scientists have no idea
about this gas.
That means it's a new discovery.
Now the question is
where did the poison come from?
There are only two scientists
in our vicinity.
One is Dr. Rudra and
another is Debkumar.
If Debkumar invented this poison...
why would he give it
to his own daughter?
That's unnatural!
What can be the motive?
It seemed like
he loved his daughter a lot.
Hmm...
Then Dr. Rudra becomes
the prime suspect.
Dr. Rudra has motive too.
He might be a scoundrel
but will he kill for such a petty reason?
But the question is
how will he get to Rekha?
And how will he sneak the poison in?
I'll pay a visit
to Dr. Rudra tomorrow.
Let it be.
Two spoons of sugar in my tea...
I've to make it then?
Gas chamber treatment.
Great arrangement!
Our country should legally start it too.
Otherwise the scum
crowding this city...
can't be washed away.
So you support the gruesome
'Aktion T4' programme of the Nazis...
happening in Poland?
Of course, I do.
Your famous dead poet himself had said...
the world is a great battlefield.
A murder which improves a race
is not a sin.
Only the weak criticize it.
They're killing Jews like rats
in gas chambers.
Do you really think
that improves a race?
Of course, it can.
Who are they actually killing?
Those who are born
with a hereditary defect.
People affected by a hereditary disease.
They are a burden to society anyway.
You're a doctor yourself.
And you're calling patients
society's burden?
Yes, I am.
Do you know how much the German government
spends on these defective people?
I read in a medical journal...
the cost is nearly
60,000 Reichsmark...
Too much money is being spent!
Where is the money coming from?
The citizen's taxes.
Why would they tolerate it?
So you must have also wanted to kill
a terminally ill patient?
I have!
But it's illegal in our country.
But...
I have complete faith on Hitler.
He doesn't have petty sentiments.
Take my word...
One day that man
will rule the world.
Absolutely!
So Rekha was a disease
that infected your son?
What are you trying to find out?
Whether I have murdered Rekha
or not?
Yes.
I wanted to, of course.
Let's say
that I've murdered her.
But how will you prove it?
Byomkesh...
The tea is getting cold.
Goodbye.
Father, did you call me?
Yes...
I bought these for you two.
I thought we can be happy now.
But...
"But it turned to a sea of poison."
Dr. Rudra is an evil "friend".
- You mean "fiend"...
- Right! Evil fiend.
He killed that tetanus patient
just to test his new medicine.
If I could hang him for murder...
I would have sacrificed
two goats at the Goddess' altar.
A ceremonial sacrifice!
It's best to investigate with a clear
and unbiased mind.
But for the first time,
even I want Dr. Rudra to be the culprit.
It'll be good riddance!
It'll benefit the nation.
What say, Ajit?
Hmm.
You're right.
- Bidhu?
- Yes?
Didn't you like the omelette?
It's very tasty.
Never had a sweet omelette before.
Very good.
Byomkesh made it.
Sweet?
Ajit, that jar on the top shelf...
It's salt, right?
That's sugar... told you many times.
Don't mind, Bidhu.
I'm really distracted by this case.
- We had burnt rice last night.
- Not enough water...
No... no.
No problem at all.
No issue at all.
Salt and sugar are
the same anyway.
Too much of either can make us ill.
Salt increases your blood pressure.
- And sugar...
- Gives you diabetes.
Right.
The sooner Satyabati comes back,
the better for both of you.
- You're right...
- Yes...
Oh! About 'Nonta'...
- Who's "Nonta"?
- It's Nontu.
Dr. Rudra's son.
He blamed Rekha
for his father's death.
- Do you mean the opposite?
- Yes...
Blamed his father
for Rekha's death...
That lad has joined
the Communist party.
That's obvious.
His father's behavior has turned him
into a communist.
Communist, my foot!
They have thrown him out
of the party.
Revolution can barely spare time
for love.
The opposite, right?
- Yeah, revolution can't happen...
- If one gets busy with love.
God knows, where he is now...
I'm feeling really hungry.
- I'll make you an omelette with salt.
- No, no!
Let it be.
- Is there a snack bar nearby?
- Finances are weak...
- No, it's on me.
- Come, Ajit...
- Yes, let's go.
- Please come every day.
Let's go.
I made this for you.
This is very beautiful.
Please wear it.
You reach home late.
And you catch a cold very easily.
As your wish, madam.
Let's go home.
Let's stay longer.
But your father will scold you?
Why will he scold me?
I'm not a kid.
If you are such a grown up...
then why aren't you
telling your father about us?
I'll tell him.
Do you think I'm afraid of him?
- Aren't you?
- No...
- How will I live without you?
- Oh, God!
What are you doing?
Enough!
Let's go home.
- Okay. Let's go.
- Let's go.
Let's go.
It was nice.
We could've spent some more time.
I made it only for you.
Do you know how long it took
to finish?
It's getting really cold here.
Wear it to work every day.
This will remind you
of me every time.
Bidhu, let's order more...
- Have mine...
- It's cold.
- Hey! One more.
- For me too.
Make it two.
My pressure is rising.
Really, huh?
- Hmm...
- Have some tea.
Ajit, order for some tea.
- See this, Ajit.
- Hmm...
This fritter is so well crafted...
Looks as good as it tastes.
Do you remember the ones you made?
They looked so strange.
The tea is good too.
Bidhu, found out about
Debkumar's financial condition?
Yes... I did.
His financial condition
is not that good at present.
But you said
he earns Rs. 800 as salary.
That's true...
but he spends a lot I think.
Or else, who buys insurance
worth Rs. 50,000 at this age?
- Life insurance worth Rs. 50,000?
- Yes.
- For himself?
- No, jointly.
For him and his second wife.
For both of them.
So that in his absence...
his widow can have
financial stability.
His children will get
nothing from it.
Anything more?
I had his son, Habul, followed too.
He's a college student.
But he never goes there.
He roams around in the streets.
He hangs around in the parks
and smokes.
Hail Mother Goddess!
Thief!
Bandit!
They want to take everything away
from me!
I pray all day
and keep to myself.
Still that moron can't stand it!
What's the matter?
Do you want to know?
Your precious son...
he stole my matchbox!
Oh, no!
Primordial murder!
The original murder!
Bidhu, wait here.
Come on, Ajit.
How can a murder be original or fake?
Can I return this?
- Have you seen Habul?
- No...
Habul...
All: Down with Fascism!
Make peace, not war!
Oh, God!
What's going on?
- Byomkesh!
- Ajit...
- Debkumar is going to Patna tonight, right?
- Yes... yes...
- We can't let him go.
- Why is that?
- No... no... we can't let him go.
- But why... what...
Ajit, you're not getting it...
Habul!
Destiny's cruel revenge, Ajit.
It's a savage mockery!
- Byomkesh.
- Did you get the warrant?
Hmm.
Let's go, Ajit.
What's going...
Byomkesh, what's the matter?
Why aren't you saying anything?
Who is the warrant for?
Where are we going?
I couldn't find a motive
for Rekha's murder before, Ajit.
Who stands to gain
from Rekha's murder?
Whose plans were Rekha ruining?
The answers to these questions
weren't clear to me earlier.
So, have you found the answers?
What did you find out?
Rekha was not the target, Ajit.
Then who was it?
And who is the murderer?
Say something.
- Get in the car.
- What do you mean?
Bidhu, give me some hint.
Don't walk away.
Hey!
Hey! Hey!
"This house of bliss I had built...
Has burned down to ashes.
I wanted to immerse myself
in the ocean of nectar...
But it turned to a sea of poison."
Debkumar, there's a warrant for you.
- Oh! You're here.
- Yes.
I was on my way
to the police station.
Please come with us.
We're not going to cuff you.
Fate!
In the end, Habul too...
Byomkesh, what I had planned...
and the way it turned out.
I wanted Rekha to have
a happy marriage.
I'd have my own modern laboratory.
I'd send Habul abroad.
Careful, Byomkesh!
Each matchstick is a murder weapon.
You'll be dead if you light it.
My great discovery!
The victim will die in a moment...
but it will leave no trace.
A great leap in modern warfare.
Not a poison. A plague.
"But it turned to a sea of poison."
Let's go.
One minute.
Just a minute.
Let's go.
This is destiny.
After I'm hanged...
all my insurance money will go
to that woman.
Life's cruel joke,
isn't it, Byomkesh?
How can I accept it?
Hmm.
Come on.
It's time to go.
Byomkesh? What...
What was he saying?
Please tell me.
Byomkesh?
Byom... Byomkesh?
Please tell me, Byomkesh...
What... What was he saying...
Byomkesh, I've committed
a lot of crimes...
If you can...
Take cover!
Hey, move!
Byomkesh?
Death of a scientist.
What? How?
He's wearing a flintstone ring.
Uh...
A letter written to American President
Franklin Roosevelt by Leó Szilárd...
was signed by Albert Einstein.
The subject of the letter is the discovery
of uranium for the use of nuclear bombs.
United States of America takes another step
towards becoming a nuclear superpower.
Germany has decided to use poisonous
nerve gas, sarin, in World War II.
Sarin gas attacks the human nervous system
killing the victim immediately.
With the entire world up in arms,
chemical warfare...
There's an old English saying.
"Vengeance coming home to roost."
Please write your next story
about Debkumar's tragedy.
Make me a minor character.
If you try you'll understand the plot
of the primordial murder.
Subhra wanted Debkumar
all to herself.
She separated him from his children.
And the husband tried to kill her?
Twice!
Debkumar aimed his unstoppable
matchstick to kill his wife.
But both times, it ended up
hurting his precious children.
- Debkumar's discovery...
- Unexpected!
He made this discovery
quite by chance.
Do you get it, Ajit?
His invention couldn't be patented.
Because there was no value for it
in any business... Couldn't be.
Debkumar had no way of using it
because he didn't have money.
If this formula went public...
warring nations like Japan,
Germany, France
would start manufacturing
this deadly poison.
The inventor would get nothing.
Here you go.
Father, what do you worry about
all day?
Money. I need money.
I need lots of money.
I need to buy new equipment
for my laboratory.
Or else the experiments would fail but...
once the experiment
is successful...
we won't have to worry anymore.
Have you eaten?
Yes, I have.
Please eat.
- Please eat.
- Hey!
Want daddy's cuddles
in the morning?
What about the wet clothes
rotting in the bucket?
This maid is here
to put it out to dry, right?
No, Mother.
I'll do it right away.
Oh no!
Your tea.
Please do the favour of drinking it.
Why do you scold the girl so much?
She touched me without taking a bath.
I'll have to bathe again.
Why don't I just die?
People who work with their minds...
want a peaceful domestic life.
But that was missing
from Debkumar's life.
He was driven crazy by his obsessive,
abusive, loveless wife!
Byomkesh, Debkumar didn't look
like a cruel man.
And the way he loved his kids...
he comes across as a caring man.
His second wife could have
shared this love.
Umm.
But she lost out because of her nature.
When someone plans to kill his own wife
life must have been intolerable for him.
Yes, yes... Thank you.
Excuse me.
If one spouse dies, the other spouse
gets all the money, right?
Yes, sir!
Why are you asking this question
again and again?
What is your intention?
Eh...
What are you saying?
- I was joking.
- Oh!
The world is at war.
We might die at any moment.
Best to have a laugh
whenever possible.
Thank you.
He wanted to hit two birds with one arrow
with the life insurance policy.
He would get all the money by killing
his wife with the poison he invented.
And no one would be able
to trace the poison either.
After getting the Rs. 50,000 life
insurance, Debkumar waited patiently.
He couldn't rush.
The life insurance company
might become suspicious.
Eat up!
What happened next?
One year went by.
Debkumar felt deeply agitated.
He decided to cast his fiery arrow soon.
Yes! Yes! I've done it!
The nature of the poison he invented
was like gunpowder.
It was harmless.
But once it comes in contact with fire
it takes the form of dangerous gas.
Just a whiff of the gas
is enough to kill.
Instant death.
Debkumar found the most effective way
to poison his wife.
Only a scientific mind could
come up an idea like this, Ajit.
He knew she lights a lamp every night
with a matchstick.
Especially when she was alone.
And this matchbox isn't used
anywhere else.
He finished his task secretly
before leaving for the Delhi conference.
He knew today or tomorrow...
his wife would light the match.
Debkumar would be 900 miles away.
No one would even think
it was his doing.
Take care.
- Yes.
- Have a safe trip.
Everything will be fine.
Drive.
- Please call once you reach.
- Okay.
It was all great
but destiny had other plans.
Instead of his wife,
Rekha lit the match.
After this disaster,
he became even more furious.
He became adamant.
Now that his daughter was dead,
his wife must die too.
How can I live now?
How can you take her, God?
After that, he set the same trap.
This time before leaving for Patna.
And again the plan failed.
Debkumar had dragged out a fatal poison
from the dark abyss of science.
"But it turned to a sea of poison."
Remember Debkumar's speeches?
You had dismissed it as
unbearble incompetence.
Strange thing is he made
a unique discovery.
Yes...
Tell me.
How did you suspect Debkumar?
- When I heard about life insurance.
- I see.
And the mode of the murder?
When Rekha died,
she had a burnt matchstick in one hand...
and a matchbox in another hand.
Therefore, she died
after lighting the match.
- Could have been an accident.
- Or could have been a causality.
You know where
Debkumar's genius was?
He kept only one poisonous matchstick
in the box.
So during the investigation,
there were no poisoned matchsticks.
It was the same in Habul's case.
Habul took the same matchbox
with him.
And Habul lit the same match.
Ajit, you are a writer.
Don't you see a metaphor
in Debkumar's story?
You know what, brother?
When Man discovered
the first weapon to kill...
he had also made
his own deathbed.
Absolutely true.
The germ of violence is secretly
being sowed all over the world.
Ultimately, it will destroy the human race.
It will annihilate the creator.
Don't you agree, Ajit?
Byomkesh!
THE FIERY ARROW